---
layout: post
title: Week 1: My thoughts on Open Source
---



The first thing that comes to my mind when I hear "open-source" is, of course, free software. I believe it to be a common association for many people. However, open-source software development is much more than that. It is a whole movement and community that is practiced by millions of developers around the world, and it is probably one of the most interesting phenomenons that exist on the internet. Open-source projects are like independent communities that attract random people with an inclination to contribute. 

The principles of OSSD enables fast and agile software development, low-cost development, implementation of community insights, etc. However, there are some cons to OSSD too. Since open-source software is free and has no restrictions over its distribution, people can use it for various reasons (not necessarily good ones). Also, open-source software can be easily exploited by anyone, as the code is accessible to anyone.

Still, it is a topic that interests me, and I would love to learn more about it. I took this course to learn more about OSSD and understand how to become a contributor. I have known about open-source software before, but I never had a chance to delve into it more. I think this course will allow me to do so. Some of the open-source projects that I have used myself, and to which I would love to contribute, are ReactJS, GIMP, NodeJS, Mozilla Firefox. ReactJS is a front-end library that is curated by Facebook and provides an unorthodox way of dealing with front-end development. I used it a lot last year and just fell in love with it. GIMP is an alternative to Photoshop that I have used in the past. I don't get to use it now, however, because NYU provides students with discounts for Adobe software. NodeJS is another open-source project related to web development that enables to execute JavaScript code on the server. With NodeJS, developers can use one language for the whole web development stack. And finally, Mozilla Firefox is probably my first ever independent browsing software that I have used. It would be amazing to contribute to something like Firefox, and any of these projects.
