---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: First group project"
---

This week we had a very interesting activity: we had to start a FireFox extension project on GitHub with someone from our class. For this activity, I worked with Amanda and Alifa. At first, we had an idea to work on an extension that changes the browser's template based on daytime (light template during the day and dark during the night). However, after some investigation, it turned out that for creating such an extension we would need to create a FireFox template. Thus, we decided to work on something similar - a LightSwitch extension that "turns on" the light on your website according to the daytime.

Because of different levels of knowledge of JavaScript, we split up the work according to that. Since I have a pretty solid knowledge of JavaScript, I got to work mainly on the codebase. I created all the necessary files and basis for the code (basically the MVP of the project). Since Alifa had no previous knowledge of JavaScript, we decided that it would make the most sense for her to work on documentation and small implementations so that she can learn some JavaScript. Amanda works on further improvements to the extension. At the moment, our extension is working and does what it is intended to do, but still needs some more polishing and proper documentation. We are still working on that with my colleagues.

During this project, I didn't learn anything particularly new in terms of tools, as I have used Git and GitHub in the past, and I also have a pretty solid understanding of JavaScript. However, as with any team project, I improved my communication skills and understood how important it is to express all thoughts and ideas to your colleagues when working on something. Proper division of work improves efficiency and helps to avoid merge conflicts (classic Git problem when working with teams). Luckily, we didn't run into any of these problems and I think that our teamwork was quite smooth.

