---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Gil Yehuda's talk and first open-source contribution"
---

This week had a lot of good stuff that happened: I managed to make my first open-source contribution and get it merged with the live project, and we heard an informative and intriguing presentation by Gil Yehuda. Both of these occurrences were probably the highlights of my week, as we continue to flatten the curve of COVID-19 by sitting at home.

### My first open-source contribution

As I mentioned in the introduction, probably the most exciting highlight of the past week was my first ever open-source contribution. I made a pull request regarding **p5.js** website. The short story behind my contribution is very random, but I guess that is how all contributions occur. The problem that I wanted to solve was the lack of the "subscribe" button next to the email input field in the mailing list subscription section. 

I found out about this problem as I was trying to subscribe to **p5.js** newsletter. There was a proper subscription input field and everything, but when I entered my email into it, there was no button to confirm my subscription. After a few minutes of trying different variations of pressing random things around the input field, I finally managed to subscribe by pressing "enter." It was one of the most unintuitive ways to subscribe, so I decided to raise an issue regarding this.

The maintainers answered my issue in a day, and they assigned me to do it. I then did the changes, made a pull request, got some critique on my changes, changed my changes, committed them, and voila. My changes [are now live on their website](https://p5js.org/community/). 

There is only one issue, however. For some reason, my CSS modifications didn't push to **p5.js** live website, so the button looks generic. I pinged both main maintainers about this, and they said that they don't know why this is happening.

### Gil Yehuda's presentation

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.
