---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Project evaluations and another great speech"
---

This week we had another great talk by [Vicky Steeves](https://vickysteeves.com/) and we also had to write our first project evaluations.

Vicky's talk had a focus on her interests and projects. She talked about her contributions and involvement in the open-source community, as well as her "mission" as a programmer. Vicky is very interested in the reproducibility of code, and so most of her involvement in the open-source community is related to that. She works on emulators that allow people to read files with deprecated extensions. Vicky provided an example of some text editor called WordPerfect, that is now unavailable, and one famous scientist wrote all of his thesis on WordPerfect. Since WordPerfect no longer exists, it is impossible to read all of the thesis files without some reproducibility emulator. She also mentioned the old video game library in the Notre Dame, where people can play old console games. All in all, her talk was quite interesting, as I have never heard about reproducibility before.

Besides the guest, we also had to write our first project evaluations. The experience was unique and helpful as it taught me the directions of choosing a proper project for my first contribution.

For my first evaluation, I worked on the GNOME Accessibility Toolkit. It is a project for the GNOME environment, that aims to improve the experience of computers to people with disabilities. It was interesting to research the project's activity and community interactions, as well as to evaluate the general potential. The GNOME ATK is a useful and meaningful project, although, since it is written in C and I have never used GNOME in my life, I would not consider it as a project for my first contribution. 

For my second evaluation, I chose Express. This project is way bigger than GNOME ATK, and it was interesting to research something that I use. However, as much as I would love to contribute to it, the Express project is very robust and used by millions of users. After evaluating it, I decided that it would be extremely hard to make my very first contribution to Express, because of its insane user statistics and robustness.

To conclude, it was helpful to learn the methods of evaluation, and I think I will know what steps to follow when choosing my first contribution project.
