---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Final Projects (and remote school)"
---

This week was quite extraordinary both in OSSD terms and in general. To be frank, I think that the problem that our civilization currently faces had much more of my interest than any academic stuff. The COVID-19 pandemic affected our daily lives and probably the way that we will study at the university for the rest of the semester. 

As a result of the pandemic, our OSSD classes are now remote, and it happened so that OSSD was my second remote class ever. I understood that, although remote classes are very comfortable and innovative, it is not the most enjoyable method of education for me. It just does not feel that serious, and sitting in my room, in front of my computer, makes me distracted. But there is nothing that we can do here, and I must get used to it either way.

Besides all the pandemic stuff, this week, we also had to choose our final open-source contribution projects in groups. I am in a group with Matthew, Li, and Sijia (otherwise known as group 6). During the last lecture (which was remote), prof. Joanna split our class into these groups, and in our group, we tried to find an open-source project that all of us would like to contribute to. We were looking for the project with some criteria in mind: the project must be kind of new, it must be related to JavaScript and web development in general, it has to be active. After our investigation of the GitHub Explore, we found a couple of projects that interest us, but we have not made a final decision yet (will make it this week hopefully). The projects that we are thinking of are [Firefox Voice](https://github.com/mozilla/firefox-voice) and [OpenFoodFacts](https://github.com/openfoodfacts/openfoodfacts-server). Both of these projects satisfy our criteria, and they are quite active. One of the reasons why we would like to work on a new project is that they tend to lack documentation. So for example, OpenFoodFacts has a very messed up documentation and a lot of issues regarding this.

Overall, it is very exciting that we are finally heading to the real first open-source contributions. I hope that we will manage to find a fitting project with my team and that the virus dies out before I finish my second semester this year.
