---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Bloomberg Open-Source Contributions"
---

This week in the OSSD class was quite an engaging one. Besides doing group activity and analyzing a Prof's assigned open-source project, we also had a very interesting talk by one of the Bloomberg employees, [Kevin P. Fleming](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kpfleming). 

### Group activity: an open-source project analysis

This Tuesday, our class was divided into groups of roughly five to six people and each group was assigned one of the open-source projects, proposed by Prof. Joanna. My group had to analyze [GNOME Clocks](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Clocks), a clock app that is built specifically for the GNOME desktop environment.

The whole process of analyzing and reviewing the project was not particularly difficult, although finding certain parts of it (such as Code of Conduct or Contributions) was a little bit more challenging, just because the Clocks app falls under the policies of GNOME. The Clocks project was also quite poorly maintained, and it did not have a lot of documentation (almost none). The project also used some unfamiliar programming languages (Vala, Meson?), so I concluded that I would not want to work on that project just because I have nothing to relate to it.

However, I learned a lot from that. I understood the importance of proper communication in an open-source project because I saw the impact of poor issue answering rate and poor dialogues between maintainers and contributors. The engagement was there, but some issues were unanswered for a year or more, and some issues were closed without further explanation. I also understood how important it is to maintain proper documentation, as I could not understand any details of the project's pipeline and code.

Overall, I think that I am quite ready to contribute to a project, and I have discovered the criteria by which I will try to find a time-worthy project.

### Kevin P. Fleming

This Wednesday we also heard from a Bloomberg employee, Kevin P. Fleming. The presentation was about the Bloomberg company and its relation to open-source projects. We also heard a few insights about Bloomberg Terminal and its importance on the world's financial sector. He also spoke about the technological stack that is used at Bloomberg.

It was very interesting and unexpected to hear about Bloomberg's involvement with open-source projects. Bloomberg engineers contributed to various well-known open-source projects, such as Kubernetes, Jupyter, Solr, TypeScript and more. One of the more notable contributions by Bloomberg was the PowerfulSeal for Kubernetes - a testing tool that tries to break the network of microservices and their communications by inducing chaos. Another one that stuck with me was the Jupyter UX design, where the Bloomberg team had adjusted the UX design of Jupyter so that it is more user-friendly.

The lecture helped me to understand, that big companies are not only about money and profits, as we tend to think. People think that large corporations will take advantage of any opportunity to gain benefits. However, as Kevin proposed, that is not necessarily true at Bloomberg as they use the policy of taking and give back there. They try to give back to every open-source project that they use.

Overall, it was another interesting presentation that taught me a lot not only about open-source but also about the culture at certain large corporations.

### Miscellaneous

Since last week, I made some three contributions mainly on OpenStreetMap and GitHub. I added a nice pizza place's location that I visited with friends last week, as well as a company in Lithuania that is run by my friends. On GitHub, I raised an issue regarding spelling in one of my colleagues from the class repository.

