---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: first week of presentations"
---

Okay, so apparently this blog post is the last one. Or maybe the next one. I am not sure, but what I am sure about is that I and my group (**p5.js**) are done with our presentation as we were presenting on the first presentation day. I think our presentation went very well, we had a somewhat equal division on the slides, and we all managed to answer some questions. It also took us less time than when we practiced our presentation, so that is also very nice. I am very proud of what we did, I got to know the open-source experience and I will work on open-source projects in the future!

Besides us, we also had some other presenters this week, namely OpenStates, Inky, FreeCodeCamp, and OpenFoodFacts.

### OpenStates (Mark, Ben, Price)

OpenStates is a project that is a project that scrapes information about US politicians and politics and provides it to anyone. Mark, Ben, and Price decided to work on this project, because they (as I understood) all had some experience with scraping, and it was what they wanted to work on. They learned a lot of things, made a lot of contributions to documentation, and had a positive experience overall.

### Inky (Carsen, Noah, Anthony, Thomas)

Inky is a code editor for a custom language, Ink, which was made for creating branched stories. The quartet decided to work on this project because they are all into game development, and Inky is somewhat helpful for that. Overall, they found out that this project was smaller, and at a slower pace, but besides that, they managed to get some contributions down. They are happy with their work as well, and I think they will take something out of this experience.

### freeCodeCamp (Daniel, Kenton, Terry, Matthew)

freeCodeCamp is a free online learning platform for coding, that has a lot of resources on various web development frameworks and methodologies, as well as CS basics. The group decided to work on this project, because of the alignment of their skills with this project. They mainly worked on the documentation and bugs (most of the bugs were related to regex). Something that I found interesting about their workflow: they seemed to have very organized group contribution workflow as they used some additional software for pipelining their contributions as a group (they used pipefy).

### OpenFoodFacts (Alifa, Jennifer, Lucas)

OpenFoodFacts is a platform that crowdsources data on food products from all around the world. The group decided to work on this project because of its friendly and responsive community, familiarity with its stack, and alignment of skills. The group seemed to have a lot of problems related to Docker, but I think it's good that they got some experience with it as Docker is one of the most popular platforms in the professional world. Docker skills are very useful nowadays.

Overall, all of the final project presentations were very interesting and everyone seemed to have put a lot of time and effort into their projects. Hopefully, next week will be as good as this!
