---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: involvement in p5.js and Wikipedia"
---

This week we made further advancements in our contribution path to the p5.js project, and we had the opportunity to talk about Wikipedia - one of the most important open-source projects that exist.

During our last session, we had group standups where each group had to report on their progress regarding their final projects. It was nice to hear all others' progress and interesting projects that they chose. I think that we had made the most progress so far compared to other groups, and that makes me feel so much better. Our class seems to be very talented and smart, and I was previously quite anxious that everyone will be so pro-active that I will fall behind. I believe, that we got lucky with our project as getting involved with **p5.js** was very easy.

Regarding our involvement, our group is currently working on different things. I am working with the styling issue at the moment - for some reason, some of the style rules are not working on the live website, and I am trying to find the problem that causes this. Li and Sijia are mostly working on correct translations to Chinese, but they also had made some example contributions. Matthew is working with different bug fixes on their website. I am really happy with our progress so far.

Additionally, last week we had an interesting lecture about **Wikipedia**. It is probably the most influential open-source project that has ever lived. We spoke about Wikipedia's principles, statistics (e.g., Wikipedia has about 1 billion total edits) and history. In my personal experience, before this class, I have only contributed to Wikipedia by making some "funny" changes to our high school page *(we added our retired Physics teacher's name to the school's wiki page's section "Legends")*. However, in the OSSD class, I had a chance to make my first contributions to Wikipedia. Overall, I find this project to be very important to me. Wikipedia helps me to find some basic information about anything. And, although it is not always correct or unopinionated information, it certainly guides me towards something. I can't imagine my school years without Wikipedia. I think of it as a replacement for the huge Encyclopedia books that I used to have when I was a kid.
