---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Finalizing the FireFox extension project"
---


This week we finally had a chance to present our finished version of the extensions (although it might make more sense to call it the latest since it is an open-source project open to contributions). Working on the extension was an interesting experience, as it was the first open-source project that I had created (and the first open-source to which I contributed actually). Everything turned out to work well, and our presentation went okay. However, it could've gone better as we were the first team to present and we were to set the tone. 

The whole experience taught me a lot about collaboration in such projects. I learned the importance of a rational division of work among all team members. When the initial division is good, then the ecosystem is established and the following contributions happen naturally. We worked only remotely, but I think that working in-person would've been much easier for me. Besides valuable teamwork experiences, I also learned about the importance of choosing the right license and outside resources. It is important to use resources that have an open-source license. For instance, one can't just use the first image from Google, as it could be copyrighted.

As much as I liked our project and presentation, I enjoyed other's presentations even more. My favorite one was MockBob. It had a very detailed README file. The idea of it was also very interesting, and it seemed to work very well. Overall, all of the projects were quite interesting and people had some very creative ideas.
