---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: First guest lecture and the matter of data"
---

This week, we had our first guest lecture with NYU professor [Deena Engel](https://cs.nyu.edu/~deena/) and NYU's grad student, librarian [Vicky Steeves](https://vickysteeves.com/). They gave us presentations about data, tools to handle it and answered the class's questions. 

First of all, it was a very interesting experience as I have only had a few guest speaker lectures in my university career. Such lectures are a great way to discover useful insights about the field that are not necessarily discussed in the course. It is also inspiring to see people that are all over the place and do so many things, that it makes you wonder how much sleep do they get. For instance, Deena Engels was talking about multiple projects that she worked on, and she was able to relate to different situations and explain the usage of certain tools based on her own experience (and there were more than a dozen tools that she presented). The same goes for Vicky Steeves. That is cool.

Besides the motivational stuff, the presentations covered a lot of stuff on data, open data, and data management tools. Deena briefly talked about data presentation types, data cleaning tools, and some open-source data sets. She also presented on different database systems, differences between SQL and no-SQL databases and. Deena also lectured on proper data management tools for less tech-savvy people and recommended using a tool called Julia instead of classic Excel sheets that nobody likes. We heard some examples of how counter-beneficial can Excel be, including the one about genome research at Harvard.

Vicky Steeves also presented some interesting tools about data and talked a lot about her own experience, open data sets, and her work. It was interesting to hear how she manages different types of job as a data scientist. She also presented the NYC Open Data website, which I have used in the past (but forgot about it ever since). She spoke about open data contributions, about which I have never really heard in the past, and encouraged us to contribute to it.

Overall, I have learned a lot of new information as I have never really worked with big data sets. I will certainly try to use some of the open data sources in my future projects, and I will know what to recommend to my computer-unfriendly colleagues that are using Excel and always moan about its problems!
